and that's why in marketing i think one
of the best skill sets
is creativity
before we get started make sure you
subscribe to this channel and if you're
on youtube click the
learn notification ladies and gentlemen
welcome to another episode of the
podcast today
we are joined by an extra special guest
one of the world's
most influential digital marketers a new
york times bestseller
ford's top 10 marketer of our time works
with the likes of amazon nbc
facebook microsoft youtube ebay 800
million and i hope i've got that figure
right neil
buyers to the club his clients websites
and
a top 100 entrepreneur as presented by
mr obama himself so neil patel thank you
for giving up your time
this afternoon but i understand it's
this morning where you are
that's right thank you for having me
good good good so i hope i did your uh
your intro justification there
it's always funny to hear people talking
about you
yeah for the um for the
audience who haven't met you yet which
is crazy if they haven't seen you online
or in marketing in some way shape or
form do you want to do a little bit of
an introduction for yourself
sure i blog at neilpatel.com where i
blog about marketing sometimes
entrepreneurship
um other than that i have an ad agency
called
neil patel digital named after me funny
enough
where we help companies grow their
traffic and the revenue online
and i have a marketing software called
ubersuggest
nice awesome and going back to work
before you even got into marketing what
made you
get into marketing first of all how did
that how did that whole journey even
start when was it
yeah it was funny so i was around 16
years old i was looking for high paying
jobs online
keep in mind i was 16 so when i'm saying
high paying i wanted like a hundred
thousand dollars here which is high
paying
but the disconnect was is i was 16 in
high school and i expected to get a job
for a hundred thousand dollars right
not gonna happen back then i believed i
could get one
so i was searching the internet looking
for jobs
and i landed on the site called
monster.com i wasn't qualified for any
of the jobs i didn't have a college
degree didn't have any of the
certifications but i saw that there were
a job board making tons of money because
they were publicly traded so their
financials were online
and i'm like you know what i can't find
a job so the next
best thing i should do is just go create
a job board so i can make money
you know helping other people find jobs
even though i'm not qualified for a job
so i spent some money a few thousand
bucks paying some developers helped me
create a website
popped it up and then what ended up
happening was
site was done i was just like where's
all the people
why aren't anyone coming to the site and
then i learned how to do something
called marketing
so i went out there paid a marketing
firm with all the money i stayed up
working uh at a job at a theme park and
then
what ended up happening was they took
the money provided little to no results
so i had no choice but to learn it on my
own i got good at it i started getting
traffic
still made no money but i was like hey
i'm good at this marketing thing and get
people traffic
i suck at making money from my own
websites but i can get people traffic
so then i i also fell in love with
marketing at the same time because i was
kind of decent at it at that time and
yeah i just kept pushing forward on that
you know side of the business really
winding down the job board over
time and it's really only focused on
marketing and helping others
what age did you what age i'm giving it
well you're giving away your uh
your age if i ask this question but what
year was it that you kind of discovered
marketing because i would imagine
the difference between now and then is
probably huge right
yeah so you're looking somewhere around
so 2003 so what would you say have been
the biggest shifts from 2003
other than the internet and social media
you know what do you think have been the
biggest shifts in marketing
yeah the the big shift that we're seeing
right now in
marketing and keep in mind i was doing
marketing before 2003 but 2003 is when i
really got into it right
because when i tell you the story it
didn't all happen within one month or
six months or a year it took some time
but by 2003
i really got decent at it funny enough
by 2001
is when i first started the job board
and what i ended up learning it took
around six months to build a job board
though but what i ended up learning
throughout that time and throughout that
process is marketing changes super fast
in 2001 if you put the keyword that
you're trying to rank for
in the title of the page used to rank
pretty easily
by 2003 if you did that it wasn't as
easy
and that was a speed then now of course
it changes much more rapidly
uh there's when many more algorithm
updates at least when it comes to seo
there's many more platforms
from facebook you know myspace was back
in the day it was popular but now
facebook instagram everyone's talking
about uh
uh this new one called clubhouse
yeah but the list goes on and on so
things change times change
and the big thing that i ended up
learning is
whatever you think is working isn't
going to work forever in the long run so
you better learn how to adapt and keep
learning and that's that's one of the
best things you can have
if you want to do well in marketing is
the ability to learn and continually get
better
that's a principle for business though
isn't it really the ability to be able
to change and inspire the
team and people on your team really
don't like change has been one of the
big things that i've
seen but it's a natural progression you
have to continually continually keep
pivoting and changing as
journeys go and the business grows right
exactly
yeah so i've heard a saying that the
2010s for
example in social media were very much a
case of building audience
building communities building following
which now kind of moving into the 2020s
it's all pretty much all about ads you
know there's everyone's got 5 000
friends there's
groups and communities with hundreds of
thousands of people in them
facebook's got to monetize other social
media platforms have got to monetize
so kind of the personal brand element is
becoming harder
to build organically and you must be
using ads what's kind of your thoughts
behind that
yeah i totally agree ads funny enough
won't go away they want to continually
charge you
for more reach that's how these
platforms make money
uh when you look at the organic reach
it's harder harder but
here's the thing there's new platforms
always come around
and make it easier to get reach for
example i was on clubhouse literally
right before we ended up doing this
uh podcast interview okay and i started
with a hundred and something followers i
joined a room
talk for literally 30 seconds and now i
have 400 and something followers
now is it going to be that easy to gain
followers on clubhouse
if they maintain their popularity and
their growth rate within a year or two
of course not right is it easy to gain
popularity on linkedin right now
yes why less than three percent or
roughly around three percent of the
people on linkedin only post content
which means majority of the people don't
post content they want more people to
post content
now if lincoln had thirty percent of
their people posting content do you
think you would gain as much followers
and reach when you post your content
of course not and why because there's
competitions already getting what
they're looking for
so these platforms will encourage you
really early on and give you what you
want but the moment
they start doing well enough where they
don't need it as much
then they turn the little knobs and
throttles and that way they start making
more money
but it doesn't mean you can't grow in
marketing you just got to get creative
and that's why
in marketing i think one of the best
skill sets is creativity
yeah sure you can read and learn but if
you can't think outside the box
especially when
everyone else is you know doing the same
thing
you're not going to do well there's so
many people with more money
more employees more resources you got to
really think outside the box to win
yeah that's why quite a lot of people
have made it with the likes of tick tock
and things like that haven't they
because they've been able to do things
i've seen people in the mortgage space
which is my background
you know doing crazy things from from a
marketing perspective that you just
wouldn't put such a professional
industry with
the stuff they're doing but their pages
and profiles are blowing up because of
it
exactly and what's funny is it's like
i know real estate agents who have
done well purely because of linkedin uh
one of my buddies todd
who's in the mortgage industry has gone
quite a few customers from linkedin as
well
who'd ever thought that right you can
end up getting business from these sites
and these platforms
if you participate yeah that's exactly
it isn't it you only get out what you
put in effectively from doing it
and i think that's one of the things
that dawned on me when you said earlier
right at the very beginning you said you
set up the website
neilpatel.com you know one of my first
lessons because i in my first 10 years
of business i basically did know
marketing which is why i'm so passionate
about it now i kind of
my journey in marketing started 2016.
but one of the first lessons i learned
was like
don't name things after you do not call
your business gary dass mortgage broker
do not call your business you know
you need a bigger brand because
otherwise i only just comes about you
so what i want you to go that route
so what was funny is when i first
started off
in the marketing room right forget my
first business but let's go into the
marketing room because that's when i
really started
yeah when i looked at that my first ad
agency was called
acs uh got crushed during 2008
during the financial crisis right the
mortgage industry at least in the us i
don't know how it was in uh
on the other side of the pond horrendous
well
when you think about it from that
perspective right that business was gone
had some software companies
neopatel.com was a place for me to just
blog about marketing i didn't expect my
brand to grow
i was just blogging on marketing because
it was fun is my passion
has nothing to do with business
eventually
my team's like we should go and create
an ad agency
right one of my buddies mike is now my
co-founder and i was like
a lot of work i don't know and we're
thinking about names
and what was funny is he's like look
everyone's trying to pay you
for marketing they're not trying to pay
me i'm not trying to pay someone else
because you have such a loyal blog
audience at that time my blog was
getting maybe like four or five hundred
thousand visitors he's like
you should and we should end up naming
the ad agency after you
and that's how it ended up starting and
then we took it from there
now here's the issue when you name
something after yourself
tony robbins is only so big lebron james
is only so big
ronaldo is only so big these brands are
not as big as
apple google amazon and the list goes on
and on
i'm stuck in that boat my brand is
nowhere near the size of ronaldo
lebron james or any of those people and
so my personal brand is much smaller
which means
my total amount of money that i can
probably make is going to be smaller as
well
but when tony robbins passes away and i
hope he never does amazing guy i don't
know him but
great content and we all eventually pass
away at least
currently there's not technology to keep
us around longer
what do you think is going to happen to
the tony robbins brand
it may not go to zero but it's not going
to be worth the same compared to when
tony robbins was
around and that's the issue that we all
end up facing that people don't really
think about in which
look if you have a brand around yourself
it's harder to make it everlasting and
in my space sure there's been some
people
that have created a brand that'll last a
very long time like ogilvy he passed
away
known as one of the best ad uh execs out
there
uh there's people like michael jordan
when he passes away
i think his shoes will still be super
popular
but i think that list is really tiny
and if i recommended people to go with a
brand i i would tell them don't build a
personal brand people don't want to buy
personal brands
then you have this key man syndrome in
which if something happens to you
the business goes away
yeah that's the that was the message
that i kind of took and it's that three
elements of brands isn't it you have the
personal brand which is you neil patel
but if you have the business brand
it can live on after you and then you
can create product brands underneath
the different businesses or the business
as such so have you not given any
thought to
releasing a business brand and kind of
slowly pivoting or do you think it would
have too much of a hindrance
we think it would impact the business in
a negative way
so we took the ad agency we change it
from neil patel digital to np digital
right because it's just initials not
everyone will know what's
around me but what's funny is when our
sales reps still talk to people they say
they want to hire neil
so that doesn't help we create a
software
product called ubersuggest and that
product
not named after me so it's standalone
which is great
and we'll can you spin off more like
that but
it's just a long journey yeah and when
you when you started your ad agency you
said you've been blogging and you built
that blog up and that enabled you you
know your team wanted to move into
into an ad agency did your ad agency
initially only deal with blogs and seo
or did it kind of go out wider and
further than that
we only ended up starting with seo and
then we added uh
paid media so paid advertising now we'll
do things like
cro and affiliate marketing and
email marketing and the list goes on and
on but eventually we expand it to many
areas
we don't do all of them but we do the
majority so that breeds
i'm glad you said that because that
nicely leads into my next question which
is
how important do you think from a
marketing perspective it is to start
with a niche
i think it's important it's marketing is
super competitive if you don't start
with the niche you're going to be
screwed so i think you need a
niche down and then after you do well in
that niche
then expand but start smaller there's
there's nothing wrong with starting
small and then growing from there
yeah i think that's a business principle
that applies out you know i started in
self-employed mortgages and slowly but
surely we branched it out branched the
business out over time
and that's now led into coaching and
mentoring and teaching and training and
courses etc and
you just i think that wouldn't have
happened if i'd have been a generalist
and not focused on one particular area
because
in a smaller pond you you can be a
bigger fish potentially can't you that's
the
thing yeah so what's um what's one of
must do things that you think people
need to do
now in marketing then be consistent
everyone expects results right
away so there's two things right one you
have to be consistent
and two you have to be persistent so
persistence you keep pushing
consistent is you have to do it on a
regular basis
so if you're blogging blog once twice
three times a week
you're participating on social media you
got to participate multiple times a week
but you got to do that for a long period
of time it used to be where you can be
popular or grow your traffic within
three to six months or one month or even
a year
but now it really takes two to three
years to really see the results
and that's where most people fail it's
not that they're doing the wrong things
they just don't do it long enough
yeah i think the the blogging side i
don't know what it's like here in the uk
in you know in the us or wherever but in
the uk certainly
the thing that i've heard is it's almost
impossible to rank for seo
they say that in the uk they say that in
the us they say that in australia
it's still very possible to rank just
not in the short run if you want results
within three months you're not going to
do that well if you have an old
established site
sure you can but generally speaking
you need to give it a year to two years
and you can do well even in the uk but
the problem is most people don't want to
invest the time and the money
for that long before the results because
you're burning the money and you're not
really generating any revenue in the
short run
but that also creates an amazing moat
because most people aren't willing to
invest
the money everyone's looking for the
quick win aren't they and as you
mentioned three years so
you mentioned their two to three blogs a
week which is going to be 100 to 150
blogs over the course of two three years
that's like
that's some commitment to keep doing for
the consistency and the persistence of
it
yeah and it's expensive if you're not
writing yourself
let's say you're paying 100 pounds per
blog post and you do
three a week right you're looking at
over 150
uh a year it adds up
very very fast over three years that's a
ton of money
so how do how do people you know who are
starting out and want to write content
you know i'm a massive video fan i love
being on video it's so much easier
you can equally create the written and
the audio out of it so it's a massive
leverage of time
but for those who don't want to put
their faces on video how can they
how can they even try to dominate in
terms of
they've just literally got to write
three blogs a week is there a perfect
length or
a place to post them is it website now
is it linkedin articles is it medium
you know how do you focus that yeah so
the length is whatever link provides the
reader with everything they need to know
so fast creating an article on
self-employed mortgages
i would talk about everything how to
qualify what sizes are easy what do you
need a show
to qualify what banks offer these
mortgages
i'm making this up because i don't know
much about self-employed mortgage
period um so the more detailed you get
the better
for example we have something in the u.s
called credit score i don't know if
there's a credit score in the uk
if you didn't talk about the credit
score in the article it wouldn't be as
thorough right
so if you talked about credit score
which you should it'll be a little bit
longer
so don't think about the article as in
how long it should be
think about did i cover everything that
needs to be covered
the second thing is it needs to be fresh
and updated
so after six months is it old are some
of the things antiquated
and need to be updated if so you need to
keep updating
the third thing is is when you have that
content you want to keep it on your blog
first
but share it on the social web and a
week later by all means reposted on
medium
uh linkedin post uh facebook post
and the list can go on and on there's
nothing wrong with repurposing and
duplicating the content because it just
gives more awareness to you
yeah i see i see and that's probably the
same do you think it's okay from like my
perspective then
if i were to do a video and then get
that video transcribed by rev.com
you know it's gonna need some editing to
make it keyword rich
or can you just kind of make it better
english
because my spoken english isn't
particularly good
and then you know put it up and job done
or do you have to do a bit more to it
than that
yeah you have to do a little bit more to
that i do the same thing so we'll create
videos funny enough we use rev.com as
well
transcribe it they're pretty fast uh you
still gotta modify it because even the
transcriptions aren't perfect
and even if they modify even even if
their transcriptions were perfect the
way we talk doesn't always work out in
a paragraph form for block content you
got to modify it
you got to make sure you're including
the keywords you got to make sure it
flows it's appealing it's com
conversational and then from there
you can post it up but it typically
requires a lot of editing what we've
seen is
there's nothing wrong with that process
but sometimes it's just easier to write
a blog post from scratch and not
transcribe their videos
yeah yeah that's very true maybe start
with bullet points and then expand it
out from there perhaps we're using
you know i often do my videos with
bullet points so maybe it's just taking
them from there and then writing the
blogs afterwards that's actually not a
bad idea
as i uh i mean a bit more effort but as
you say it'll probably read and probably
write a little read a little bit better
and it'll perform much better too in the
long run yeah yeah yeah
interesting so i'm interested we covered
a bit around marketing and i know that's
your core topic but i'm always
interested this is
aimed at business owners um we get a lot
of self-employed entrepreneurs and
you know who listen to this from startup
through to scale up and i think
how many people are on your team right
now
i don't know globally how to guess maybe
so 400 so that's so from that thing i
honestly don't know
so one of the things i'm always
interested in i know i've seen your kids
in your videos before and you know
you're a family man and
how do you how through the journey of
getting to 400 people on your team which
most people listening to this let's be
face it they're never gonna have to you
know deal with businesses of that size
but how have you managed to maintain a
work-life balance through that journey
of
you know going from what was just you
perhaps initially i would assume and
then
the scale-up phase amazing managers
and partners that's really
i'm not the best operator so uh my
business partner mike
he ends up dealing with all that and i'm
not good at that stuff he's the one who
hired pretty much
almost all the people as well right so
was it always when you started out was
it in your vision
to get to the scale and size that you
are now or was that more
kind of mike's vision or it's just
happened organically over the time that
you've been doing it
happen organically neither him or i were
like yeah you know we don't care if we
have 400
500 or 1000 or even 50. we care for the
people but we don't care about the
number
um you know we don't want to fire people
don't get me wrong on that end
but when we started we never had this
vision that we want to have a thousand
employees or 500 or 400
it's we want to create amazing
environment
for all our team members where they
enjoy working
we want to create amazing results for
our customers where they're happy and we
can help them succeed
but generally speaking it just
organically happen i think it's too hard
to plan out how many people you want
and typically if you can get more done
with less people the better off you are
yeah and it definitely stems you know
you've got that passion for marketing
which is clearly
evident and it's what's driven the
business forward for such a long period
of time isn't it it's
without that a passion front leading it
and you know someone
operating it effectively as you say in
your operations manager then it just
never would have got to where it was
exactly yeah do you think it's um
has it been stressful for you over that
journey of of going through it or do you
think that's mostly been carried by your
business partner
uh it's mainly through my business
partner i don't have to deal with
literally anything nice so what's your
so what's a typical day then like for
you
in in terms of you know coming up are
you the ideas man and
doing all that side of it i focus on the
marketing
traction you know and going from there i
spent a lot of time with family
coven we're all in lockdown anyways
but yeah i know and then things are
growing uh decently
during times like this what most people
don't realize is bigger you are
the harder it is to stay afloat right
you got more expenses more people
business may not grow as fast during
times like this which is fine
you know i look at things and there's
way more people struggling harder
and more than me which sucks i rather
struggle a little bit more and make sure
people have food on their
plates at night stuff like that but keep
in mind you know
the size isn't always a good thing and
the reason i want to emphasize that and
especially in the mortgage industry you
see a lot of people are like i want a
massive team i want people
dialing getting me tons of leads and
closing tons of deals we have to
remember when you grow
really large it also makes it easier for
you to potentially fail as well
yeah do you think during these times you
mentioned kovid there as well and we're
in lockdown in the uk it got announced a
couple of days ago at the weekend and
do you think it's now is a really good
time to be doubling down on marketing
and actually driving the business of the
future i think so
um what's interesting is that some
industries are booming so in the u.s
real estate is booming like crazy right
now
we have a shortage of supply i don't
know if that's happened in the uk
um our interest rates are really low and
there's a shortage of inventory on the
market
so most people thought if you asked them
a year or two ago they would have said
that
uh corrections coming and now we're
actually seeing the opposite where
more sales are happening higher prices
and they're happening quicker
yeah yeah yeah i think we're seeing the
similar it's it's one of those that
there's been so much speculation
in terms of what's actually going to
happen with the industry and what's
going to happen with the market
can people still go and view properties
and how can solicitors manage to get
people to sign paperwork and you know
the legal side of it
yeah it's uh it's all fun and joys but a
lot of the people who listen to this as
well are kind of in the online world
and actually generating course
commissions or coaching
side of things as well you know what are
the big things that you think work from
a marketing perspective if you're
a coach or a consultant or a speaker
someone like that
the biggest thing that most people make
mistakes in that space is they don't
have the upsells
see let's say you're doing ads or ser
whatever sorry about that
so let's say you're doing ads or
whatever it may be right
seo when people are selling courses
coaching or whatnot
the difference between a six figure
business and a seven figure business
is the person who's doing six figures
wants to spend a dollar
and make 10 right away right so they
don't spend as much the returns are
higher they're just not at scale
the person making seven figures realizes
that hey if i want to sell more
and make more money i gotta spend a
little bit more
and not make as much i may spend a
dollar and make three dollars or a pound
and make three pounds
the eight figure guy will say hey you
know what i'm willing to spend a pound
as well as i make a pound right away but
then i'll have the upsells and in the
long run
i'll make quite a bit more money the guy
who's at nine figures will say
hey i'll spend three pounds totally make
one pound but because i have so many
upsells in my funnel and so many
products eventually i'll make way more
than three pounds
i'll make six seven eight and the
business is highly profitable
i'm gonna have to burn money for a while
and to really get there
what you need is multiple products
upsells and downsells
if you do that you'll do much better in
this phase and you need to have products
at all different price points from low
to high to medium and when you do that
you can appeal to all segments of the
market and you can do better
yeah that's fantastic advice i've
definitely seen that in some of the
people as well
you know some of the large particularly
american coaches and things like that
you can see their whole product suite
and there's just a massive stuff they
get you in on a one pound a day kind of
thing
and they get 20 000 people signing up in
a week or whatever
it's crazy yeah
you need a lot and then you got to keep
them up to date as well because if
they're not up to date people stop
buying
yeah and that's the problem in marketing
isn't it it's so hard to release
marketing courses because within the
space of a month an algorithm change and
it's all gone completely
that's right yeah i've seen someone
actually one of the one i've seen your
um i got targeted with one of your ads
for your facebook course that you've got
that's probably not my ad because we
don't run ads for our stuff but that's
probably
what was that maybe maybe it wasn't an
ad maybe it was just the fact that i
follow your page and
yeah that could have been it but yeah we
have a facebook course and what's funny
enough is
sometimes people do take my name and
image and then they run ads to their own
company with it
yeah we send them legal notices and then
eventually gets taken down
yeah and that that it's a facebook video
series right is it five videos i think
it is maybe
um yeah it'll be a six part series
we'll end up going from there but i'll
show you something funny
so if you look at this one of my team
members like grant saying are you paid
to endorse social pilot are they using
your image without knowing
and then could tell no send an email
take it down but like
you know not that i know but like it's
so funny just the amount of people that
just use other people's names and stuff
like that and just rip them off
yeah it's crazy in it but yeah
definitely i've i've only seen the first
two
in terms of that series that's out at
the moment but from what we've seen and
i've passed on to my team
there's huge amounts of value in there
so for anyone watching or listening you
need to go and dive over to neil's
facebook page and actually get a watch
of that because it's going to help you
excel when it comes to facebook
marketing which is highly competitive at
the moment compared to when i started in
2016.
definitely it's much more competitive
sadly yeah and you mentioned clubhouse
earlier i'm quite intrigued what's kind
of your viewpoint
in terms of where you think clubhouse is
going to go with it being so new and
fresh
i have no clue but i think it's going to
do really well in b2b
um so i see it as another version of
linkedin
just audio version so i'm just trying to
get as many followers as possible
yeah i think it's um it's definitely one
of those that with everybody having been
in used to you know doing things like
this where you're on stream yard or
zoom or you know the the physical
events have had to stop you know email i
think is going to be massive this year
and i think things like audio and
clubhouse where
the leverage of time you don't have to
sit there and actually invest time into
watching a video
you can sit on a bike and ride and
listen or you can go for a walk with the
kids and have one earphone in or
whatever
do you think that's a fair assessment
for this for 2021
i agree yeah yeah so what's next for uh
for neil patel then
where's your brand and business going
just continually grow
or try to at least hopefully knock on
wood
a little superstitious but we'll try to
grow and see what happens
yeah you're going to continue to keep
doing the uh the vlogging do you do the
blogging yourself now or is that
leveraged out to somebody else
blogging is me uh my team updates 21 old
blog posts to keep them fresh
that they do i don't have time to do 21
updates
a week but i write at least one post a
week
crazy nice so in terms of if people want
to find out more about neil patel
or connect with you on socials what's
the best thing and where to go
neilpatel.com thanks very much indeed
now it's been really a pleasure to have
you on thanks for sharing your wisdoms
on marketing and business and
i look forward to watching more of you
online thanks for having me